## Daily Weight Tracker App
### Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
This app was designed to provide an application for users to record and track trends in their daily weight.  It was also designed to help users keep track of their goals and notify them when with congratulations when they meet those goals.  It was required to support 3 types of users.  Those who want to lose weight, gain weight, or maintain a healthy weight.
### What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
There is a login/create account screen, a daily weight logger screen, and a settings screen for users to adjust their goal weight.  I also added some database developer only screens to aid in development.  My UI designs were modern with a philosophy of following a modern branding color strategy.  This means attractive call to action color with shades of white, black, and grey to support.  I also leveraged box radius and a tile layout to keep things modern looking.  This UI is designed to provide users with as little friction as possible so they can engage with the app.
### How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?
I layed out a the UI wireframe in powerpoint and created a UML diagram to show the data flow for the application.  I then took the wireframe and my UI/branding strategy and punched it into an LLM to generate some samples with sleak modern designs until I found one I liked.  I then reverse engineered those UI's as xml layouts.  I then added the functionality.  I leveraged gemini agent to help with syntax and debugging to speed up development time and help with any holes in my approach.
### How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?
I didn't write any tests, but I did test manually and do regression tests manually using the simulator in Android Studio.  If I were to develop this app further I would write tests to handle some of this.
### Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
I had to inovate when it came to changing up how the sqllite functionality worked.  When looking at the documentation on Google's website, I saw that they reccomended using Rooms instead since it's a simpler and more modern abstraction layer.  I really liked that approach and it payed off by simplifying the way data is handled in my application.
### In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
I really liked writing the login logic.  It may sound goofy, but writing form logic has always been fun for me because of how logical it is and it allowed me to show some of my skills.  A lot of my experience is in IT/OT, controls engineering, test engineering, python, and SCADA/MES systems.  Didn't get to leverage any of those skills as much as I got to leverage the thought process.
